+++
categories = []
date = "2016-10-14T12:15:21+05:30"
description = ""
keywords = []
title = "CSS3 Gradients"

+++

<p>Gradients displays the combination of two or more colors. 
Gradients are typically one color that fades into another, but in CSS you can control every aspect of how that happens, 
from the direction to the colors (as many as you want) to where those color changes happen.</p>

<h3>CSS3 defines two types of gradients:</h3>

Linear Gradients (goes down/up/left/right/diagonally)<br>
Radial Gradients (defined by their center)<br>

<h4>Linear gradients</h4>
Linear gradients are used to arrange two or more colors in linear formats like top to bottom.
To create a linear gradient you must define at least two color stops. Color stops are the colors you want to render smooth transitions among. You can also set a starting point and a direction (or an angle) along with the gradient effect.

<h6>Syntax :</h6>
background: linear-gradient(direction, color-stop1, color-stop2, ...);


<h4>Radial gradients</h4>
Radial gradients appears at center.
To create a radial gradient you must also define at least two color stops.

<h6>Syntax :</h6>
background: radial-gradient(shape size at position, start-color, ..., last-color);

<h3>Need for this standard:</h3>

<p>Earlier, you had to use images for these effects. However, by using CSS3 gradients you can reduce download time and bandwidth usage. In addition, elements with gradients look better when zoomed, because the gradient is generated by the browser.</p>

<h4>Working Section:</h4>

<a href="https://jsbin.com/ganaluheke/edit?html,output">Linear gradients</a>

<a href= "https://jsbin.com/bufihu/1/edit?html,output">Radial gradients</a>

<h4>Point of Contact:</h4>

<p>Sahil Kumar</p>
<a href="mailto:sahikumar@deloitte.com">sahikumar@deloitte.com</a>